---
title: 'Building a Metrics Dashboard'
date: '2025-05-10'
tags: [metrics, prometheus, fastapi]
summary: 'FastAPI, htmx, chart.js, and prometheus - oh my!'
slug: metrics-dashboard
---

When I first created my homepage a few weeks ago, I wanted to display some server metrics on the site, but it was a bit too big of a project for me to bite off at that point. But this week, I was ready to take a proper swing at it. I had heard of `FastAPI` as a simple and powerful Python module for HTTP APIs, so I decided to use that to make Prometheus query results available to my webpage. I also found out about `htmx` in my reading, which is a javascript library that extends html and makes it possible to have individual elements of a page complete recurring GET requests (i.e. "auto-refresh" of queries). And I also selected Chart.JS for rendering chart-view metrics, as opposed to just simple single-value metrics.

For the first cut of the page, I picked a few basic metrics for CPU and Memory Usage, Disk Space, and Network Rx. I copied the queries for these from my Grafana dashboard. The first piece of the puzzle was to make the Prometheus queries available to HTML (or htmx, in my case). That's where FastAPI came in. I built a simple app with endpoints like `/queries/cpu` and `/queries/memory`. The definition for each endpoint was to query data from prometheus, and then return it. Originally, I thought that I could just return the raw data and then render it in higher-level html, but it turns out that for htmx queries, it expects the response to already be an HTML document, not just a raw value, so I added a simple template to help render the value of each endpoint into a "widget". Once I had the widgets defined, I also needed a top-level html page (at `/`) that displayed the widgets and automatically refreshed their values. I had ChatGPT cook up a simple template, but realized that I wanted to pull in the same CSS I was using for my homepage site.

Since I was building the dashboard as it's own top-level directory and application, it was a little complicated to have shared CSS with my main homepage. I originally hoped to just symlink the files, but that doesn't work with docker very well. So I moved the common files (`main.css` as well as the icon files for the site) into a top-level `shared-assets` directory and then built a simple `sync_assets.sh` script that copies those files from the shared directory into all child directories (right now, just `homepage/` and `dashboard/`). I figure this will be useful in the future when I build more top-level apps that want to use the same style as my other pages.

With this, I had the first iteration of my dashboard built! It was pretty cool, but kinda boring with just singular numbers for each metric. So I had ChatGPT help me build some charts based on the same metrics using Chart.JS. The rendering is a bit clunky and I definitely need to do some more reading because I'm a total JS noob, but I at least got them in and working which was cool! After some more tweaking of the look and feel of the site, I was happy enough with it that I connected it into my main homepage, replacing (and deleting) the old "fake metrics" page I had put together as a placeholder lol.

While I was in there, I also added links to all of my services that host their own dashboards: in addition to Grafana (which was already there), I added in `traefik`, `prometheus`, and `whoami`. I'm really happy with how the page is coming together, and I think I'm almost ready to share it more publicly (LinkedIn, resumé, etc).
